---
id: 01.02.exploring-tuval-functionality
title: Exploring TGI
sidebar_label: Exploring TGI
---

We can categorize TGI according to its functionality:

  - Primitive Objects (Color, RectangleF, PointF, SizeF, Vector2D)
  - 2D Vector Graphics (line, rectangle, curves, paths etc.)
  - Typing (text) Operations
  - Image Operations
  - Transform Operations

## Primitive Objects
In TGI, there are some standart objects used in all vector operations. Some of these are Color, RectangleF, PointF, SizeF, Vector2D. It is important to understand these objects as they are used in many processes in TGI. We will talk about these objects later.

## 2D Vector Graphics

Vector graphics relate to drawing shapes that can be determined by point sets in a coordinate system. These shapes are called primitive shapes; For example, we can give lines, curves, rectangles and graphics paths. In TGI, there are ready-made methods for creating such vector shapes.

In the TGI library, we can divide 2D vector programming into two categories: general and advanced. General 2D vector graphics provide basic drawing procedures and objects, while advanced objects are used for more complex operations.

The main 2D vector programming classes defined in the general category are; Pen, Pens, Brush (and Brush-derived classes), Brushes, Font (and other typing related classes), PointF, RectangleF ve SizeF. We will discuss these classes and their members in more detail in other chapters.

The Advanced category includes blending, color blending, graphic paths, custom line caps, hatch brushes, linear gradient brushes and matrices. We will discuss these classes and their members in more detail later.

## Image Processing
Image processing includes viewing and modifying images. With the Bitmap and Graphics class, we can display and modify images.

## Typography
Typography refers to the design and appearance of the text. TGI provides classes for creating and using fonts. The most important class in this category is the Font class. All the procedures you will use when you want to write a text on the screen will require a Font object. TGI ayrıca, bir sistemde yüklü tüm yazı tiplerini okumak için sınıflar sağlar. TGI also provides classes for reading all fonts installed on a system. In addition, TGI allows you to take more action on fonts using the opentypejs library. We will detail these issues later.
